---
layout: post
title: Vim Accumulated Tips
excerpt: "A great list of some of the vim commands that could be really helpful to light-to-heavy Vim users everyday. Navigation and basic commands will not be listed here under the assumptions that they are elementary to survive in a entry-to-high level learning curve."
date: 2018-04-22
modifited: 2018-04-22
comments: true
pinned: true
tags: [Linux]
---
##### Escape Insert Mode without the ESC key
When there is a physical keyboard around, I prefer to use ```ESC``` to get out of insert mode. However, the new Macbook Pro adopts a touchbar with ```ESC``` in it and it is not fun to use under any circumstance. Luckily, it turns out that savior to this tragedy is another combination with one extra keystroke. Believe me, it is definitely worth it for the adaptation curve. 
~~~ shell
control + [ # faster way to exit insert mode
# not prefered but still works
control + c # force quit all commands including buffered
~~~
##### Search and replace text in selection
For example there is a line
~~~~ shell
music amuse fuse refuse
~~~~
To replace ```us``` with ```az```, the command would be 
~~~ SHELL
:s/\%Vus/az/g
~~~
The ```\%V``` specifies to search and replace in visual mode not entire file.
#### Jump to a certain line
Most often I use *number*+G to jump to a certain line in Vim. However, it is possible to jump to a line from file opening, which is most useful when debugging and file and found a breakpoint. There are multiple ways to do it but the simpliest are:
~~~ shell
# goto line 21
vim file.xx +21
# or
vim file.xx -c ":21"
~~~
### Vim Package management with Vundle
I'm trying to keep Vim a minalistic development tool but some additional packages would only boost productivity without harming the overall performance of Vim. 
#### Vundle
#### YouCompleteMe
It is totally understandable some coders do not fancy auto completion just to stay sharp with their coding ability and habit. One day or another, I imagine a working environment inside an IDE of some sort. I am the other type of programmers who would love to have some degree of help during the coding. [YouCompleteMe](https://valloric.github.io/YouCompleteMe/) is a must-have plugin for me and anyone should try it out just to have fun. 
#### Vim Markdown
There are a lot of open-source markdown packages for Vim, I use [plasticboy](https://github.com/plasticboy/vim-markdown) markdown package. So far it works great for all the markdown files.
